over 100 years ago an 11 year old boy
left his drink on a porch during a cold
night
the glass was filled with powdered soda
dissolved in water
and a stirring stick to mix it up 20
years later
frank epperson that very forgetful boy
presented his accidental invention
the popsicle in a california park
there's no record of the original
popsicle flavor
but among the very first were cherry the
most popular one
lemon orange banana watermelon grape
and even root beer chocolate chip
cookies are somewhat younger than
popsicles
having been invented in the 1930s ruth
wakefield the owner of a popular
restaurant named the toll house inn
is considered to be the inventor of
these scrumptious cookies
there are various stories behind this
invention one story claims that ruth ran
out of baker's chocolate
and decided to replace it with some
basic semi-sweet chocolate expecting it
would melt completely
but it didn't another story says some
chocolate just
accidentally fell into the batter ruth
denied the
accidental origin of her cookies
claiming that it was
all done deliberately there are many
legends behind the creation of the
potato chip
one claims they were invented in 1853
by a chef at a luxurious new york
restaurant
french fries were one of the specials at
this restaurant and people seem to love
them
but there was one customer who wasn't
satisfied with the quality
complaining they were too thick when the
chef george crum
not crummy at all cooked thinner french
fries
the picky customer complained again
george deliberately made his next batch
of fries
paper thin these fries were so thin
it was impossible to eat them with
cutlery surprisingly the finicky eater
loved the dish the chips recipe spread
and within a few decades
potato chips could be found in all the
american grocery stores
turning from a hot dish to a fast snack
worcestershire sauce is another product
that wasn't invented deliberately
two english chemists john willie lee and
william henry parents
simply forgot about some barrels in the
pharmacy basement for a couple of years
the first mixture they had made was
totally inedible due to super strong
flavor
but when they forgot some barrel of the
mixture in the basement
it became fermented when the chemist
rediscovered the barrels and were
curious to try it
they found that the taste had mellowed
this condiment is now used to intensify
even those dishes that originally didn't
have it for example
chili con carne worcestershire sauce is
part of the fifth flavor
umami or savoriness which explains its
rich taste
tofu or bean curd was invented centuries
ago
one of its origin theories is that tofu
was first created by a chinese prince
another theory claims that tofu appeared
as a result of mixing boiled ground
beans and sea salt
the salt was quite impure and probably
contained
calcium and magnesium these ingredients
let the bean mixture produce its curd
like consistency
one more legend says that some nagery a
sort of evaporated sea salt
was accidentally dropped into soy milk
today doctors tell you to stay away from
coca-cola
but it was surprisingly invented by john
pemberton
who had a medical degree and was a
pharmacist
pemberton's french wine coca was
initially used as a remedy for severe
pains headache
and as a nerve tonic in 1886
a prohibition law was introduced and
john had to change the recipe to remove
the alcohol
one thing was left unchanged though the
cola nut that gave the drink its
trademark flavor
some legends say that john only
accidentally added carbonated water to
the new recipe
but in fact he knew exactly what he
wanted to do
pemberton thought bubbles were a savory
alternative to alcohol
john's cola is definitely the coke
precursor but today's drink differs from
the original pemberton's recipe
the sandwich was invented by accident
too
back in the 1700s john montague the
fourth earl of sandwich
ordered his valet to make him a simple
dish that could be eaten with no
cutlery at all he asked the valet to
tuck some meat in between two loaves of
bread
lord sandwich was particularly addicted
to playing cards
and this dish let him eat without
stopping the game
the cards didn't get greasy either
people started asking to bring the same
as sandwich to their games
and soon the dish had its common name
the tomato ketchup we ate today is such
a modified version
that it actually has nothing to do with
original ketchup recipe
you can trace its roots back to the 17th
century when the chinese mix pickled
fish and spices
calling it a word that sounded a bit
like ketchup and which meant the brine
of pickled fish
the english first tried this sauce about
a hundred years later
the british version featured mushrooms
shallots and even walnuts
later the word ketchup changed its
meaning and could be used for any dark
colored sauce
the first tomato ketchup had anchovies
among its ingredients
which hints back to its relation to the
chinese fish sauce
nachos aren't some ancient mexican food
they were invented less than a hundred
years ago ignacio anaya
nicknamed nacho is said to have invented
this dish in the 1940s
ignacio was a chef and one day a regular
customer asked if ignacio could bring
her and her three friends
something different as a snack he saw
how hungry the
ladies were and decided to cook
something quick for them
he had to improvise using available
ingredients
so he grabbed some fried tortillas
grated loads of cheese on top of them
and heated the dish from above to make
the dish more savory
he added some jalapeno peppers on top
the very regular customer asked the name
of the unusual snack
ignacio didn't think long and said
nachos special
cheese puffs used to be a waste product
in the 1930s
edward wilson noticed some oozing corn
in one of the machines at a factory
that produced flake food for animals
those ribbons seemed interesting
so edward decided to take them home and
try to season them
he also noticed that the puffy corn
hardened if it was exposed to air
the experiment turned out to be a
success so it was later developed into a
world famous snack
now instant noodles weren't invented by
mistake but there were several mistakes
while inventing them the main idea was
to create something with a long shelf
life
after several unsuccessful attempts
momofuku
ando invented the method of preserving
the noodles
they were processed in various ways like
steamed
dehydrated fried in hot oil and seasoned
and instant noodles used to be a luxury
product since they cost
way more than the fresh noodles everyone
was used to
another product that was invented
unwittingly is yogurt
it first appeared in central asia
thousands of years ago
some herders stored milk in a place with
an abundance of bacteria without knowing
it
the milk was fermented and it resulted
in a thicker texture and flavor change
one of the herders wasn't scared of that
kind of dish and tried it
nothing bad happened to him so other
people started eating it too
today pink lemonade has that nice color
because of grape juice or added
colorants
but there are two legends of how it was
invented
and both feature circus workers the
first story alleges that
henry allat who worked in a circus
unwittingly dropped a few
red cinnamon candies in the lemonade
which gave it that vibrant pink color
the other story is gross it claims that
circus worker pete conklin one day ran
out of water for lemonade
and instead used the water from the tub
where one of his colleagues had washed
her red stockings
the color of the pants turned the water
pink pete added some sugar
slices of lemon and acid he called it
strawberry lemonade
the customers liked it a lot and his
sales doubled
yes the people were panting for the
stuff
the tarta tatin which is a caramelized
upside down version of an
apple pie was cooked for the very first
time by mistake
two sisters stephanie and carolyn tatten
ran a hotel in the 1800s
one day stephanie wanted to cook a
simple apple pie
but she stewed the apples and butter for
too long
to conceal her mistake she put the crust
on top of the apples and put it in the
oven
when she took the pie out of the oven
she noticed several burn marks
it was a bad cooking day she didn't want
the guest to notice
so she flipped the pie over and
presented it as a brand new recipe
surprisingly the guests just loved the
pie which soon became their signature
dessert
okay gotta go i'm really hungry